a lot of you keep your eyes on that nerd
who's channel name I won't attempt to
pronounce but i will link it down below
i banished yen greetings so i just
washed I Bella cl's video on the
israel-palestine conflict I Venice yen
thank you also to abolish seal ah the
new CN hey one of the questions I've
been asked most frequently just last
little while is are you French and the
answer is no I'm not French the quite
next question comes as why why are you
not French was actually a completely
reasonable question in my case right now
my daughter is connected to France in
some way it's not quite clear how to be
honest with you and the start of this
semester just a couple of weeks ago I
tried to enroll in French classes here
at the University of Victoria but I
could not do so just by happenstance it
turns out that this semester the
university only scheduled one class one
room so there were half as many seats as
they're usually would be I walked into
the office to see what was up with this
French class because I had enrolled via
the computer here you select your
courses through a computer interface uh
but I didn't think I'd get into the
class and I went I went to the the
office and spoke to the secretary she's
a special secretary for the Department
of French and you can see she was a
nationalist about it and she said to me
oh I'm sorry this is the situation you
can't get to class but I hope you won't
be discouraged I mean I hope you know
this isn't your last chance study the
French language I hope you stick with
she was completely sincere and I said
back to her complete sincerely let me
tell you this is my last chance still in
the French language because as far as i
know a couple months from now I'm moving
to Japan this is quite likely my last
semester at this university and my last
opportunity learn this language now or
ever so yeah it would have meant a lot
to me if you guys had your act together
and I get study French this term
but I can't so I won't thanks your time
I have studied the French language in
the past when I was in grade school and
very memorably when I was in the process
of applying to become a French citizen
so this is the bizarre answer the
question of why are you not French the
truth is that it comes down to one bad
teacher and one bad bureaucrat nobody
taking responsibility for an awful
government system over there in France I
feel bad and telling the story not
because it's a sad story not because i
feel that i can't give voice to some
kind of tragedy that i'm trying to
communicate to you but actually because
of how hilarious the story really is
many many points in the story were laugh
out loud funny when i went through them
and i actually can't communicate that i
feel powerless to share with you just
how ridiculous absurd and surreal my
experience was in applying to become a
French citizen and in going through the
process of civic education and language
education that was supposed to prepare
me to become a citizen the French
Republic it was so funny and so absurd
and so ridiculous and so over-the-top
and I can't communicate that to you I
can't share that surreal situation with
you being in a civics class learning
about the the virtues of French
democracy the teacher of the instructor
for the class telling us all how secular
France is because even in a small city
like this there were 38 mosques so when
people in your home country say Oh
France is a bad country because its
secular you should say back to them know
i'll have you know there are 38 mosques
even in this small city in France but
secularism Eaton's have mosque on every
corner and in that town it did I mean
they're pretty much was a mosque on
every corner downtown there
a lot of them quite small of course some
big ones out in the suburbs the teachers
interpretation of secularism was that
Islam had special protection under the
government and he insisted on this that
the government supported all three
religions in the world equally Judaism
Christianity Islam and even though my
ability to communicate in French was so
limited I tried to engage him in a bit
of a philosophical discussion pointing
out to him that know the meaning of the
word secular is not that the government
supports Judaism Christianity and Islam
equally that is not the meaning of word
secular the meaning of the word secular
is that the French state is not involved
with any of the religions government is
separate from all religion and Hum his
insistence that their only were three
religions in the world is Silva is
really became bizarre as the class came
up all the time there were all these
really political debates reflecting who
was in the classroom and ultimately the
coercive purpose of the course itself
because as politely as possible the
purpose of the course was to say
assimilator get the hell out that's
softball at all he want that was the
message this guy was there delivered to
us and let me tell you I'd have a lot of
assimilating do to fit in the French
culture for me in particular that would
have been an uphill struggle but you
know there were students in the class
who bitterly denounced the French
government for their laws on the veil
you know wearing a headscarf and wearing
a veil that covers your your face for a
Muslim woman that's actually illegal in
some contexts in France and it's
discouraged by the French government so
we got all these great speeches from the
audience disputing with the professor
got really upset disputing with him the
legality and morality of wearing the
veil in France
and again you know my ability my ability
to me to get in France was limited but I
I nevertheless made the effort say to
him look I'm sorry in this room as it
happens nobody is Hindu and nobody is
Buddhist but secularism does not mean
that Christianity Judaism and Islam are
the state religion secularism means that
the government has no religion and that
all religions are are equal it's out of
the state etc and I remember the first
time I raised that issue he said well
India was not a former French colony now
France did have some colonies in Asia
but I remember i managed to come back
you know at the moment I said well hate
he was a former French colony what about
the religion of voodoo are you telling
me that secularism doesn't treat
voodooism as equal to Judea switch in
Islam I said that you have I think they
have many thousands of Buddhists and
Hindus living in France despite the
liquidity zuv the colonial history as it
look you know this is not what the word
secular means this is not what you
should be teaching new immigrants
because what he was teaching them
directly was that Islam specifically had
a special status as defended and funded
by the French state and again when
you're living to the situation sometimes
they're so over-the-top they're so
bizarre you think if this was on
television people would think it was
unrealistic if this were a sketch people
would think it's too exaggerated it
can't possibly be real one day the the
professor brought pamphlets for an STD
Clement a clinic for sexually
transmitted diseases and he explained
that that here in France we have special
civil rights for these things and not
only do you have the right to be tested
for free at this clinic but you can be
tested anonymously so that way it's
completely impossible that your husband
finds out that you went to visit the
clinic to get tested this way
and the front several rows of the
audience which is where the the more
observant Muslims would sit the women
who were running full veil for whatever
reason they prefer to sit in the front
row women are wearing head scarves and
so on they got excited they got verbally
excited and jumped up in their seats and
wave their oh give me one and they were
asking for more copies so they could
give them to their their friends he
didn't have enough copies he hadn't
brought enough copies of the promotional
pamphlet for this STD clinic to this
event and it was actually a scramble if
you made a sketch out of that and
certainly a lot of people would say it
was offensive and they would also just
say unrealistic too over-the-top too
unbelievable I mean in general in life
all of your opportunities are going to
be created and destroyed by just one
good person or one bad person in the
right place at the right time in the
particular town I was living in in
France when I went into the
naturalization process as they call it
the language education program there was
a complete fraud and I say fraud
advisedly a small number of people were
charged it really two teachers with one
supervisor so we're not talking about a
lot of people involved in some kind of
scam here but most of the students they
had were in a position of powerlessness
where they could not complain now about
ninety-five percent of the people going
through that program were Muslim
immigrants we're economic migrants from
North Africa and other parts of the
Muslim world not all the more Muslim
immigrants there was one fellow from
Tibet I met and spoke with one fellow
who was a refugee from Cambodia
was one woman from Thailand those few
people those two teachers and that one
supervisor if they had been good people
if they had been competent at their job
I would be a French citizen today but
they weren't they were bad people and
that was an absolutely terrible program
and in their legal position the vast
majority of students wouldn't say or do
anything to question what was happening
the program and again I've got to make
clear I'm not trying to reform or
radicalize what they're doing I just
want a legitimate French education so I
mentioned in the paper work legally they
were obliged to give me a curriculum a
lesson plan basically and then I was
supposed to sign this lesson plan I was
supposed to agree to it and then I would
be bound to attend the lessons and
participate in that plan and I could not
get them to give me a curriculum and
this is part of the problem because
these teachers would just show up and
improvise off the top of their head
there was no textbook there were no
lessons there was no grammar there was
no structure of any kind if they decided
to photocopy something they would do it
during their coffee break you know
extemporaneous elling of the last minute
do it but mostly that the teachers would
just show up and in plain language they
would they would be s they would
they would make things up and
you'd be stuck there for hours and at
the time I mean I had every motivation I
was completely exhausted from taking
care of my newborn daughter and managing
my relationship with my wife who was
none to gradually becoming my ex-wife
but despite all those things it's it's
very strange like we have this idea and
the West that if you complain if you are
non conformist if you challenge
authority then you're some kind of
maverick you're some kind of radical but
this has been wanting one of many
situations in my life where I am
challenging Authority but what I want
really is the luxury of being a
conformist I would have been completely
happy to be in that program
and just focus work hard learn French
what did nothing else here when I came
back this part of Canada enrolled in
Chinese I had no motivation whatsoever
to challenge authority I was just here
to learn Chinese no reason to criticize
the teacher the professor's or anything
but the program was a disaster and I
ended up having to take a formal
complaint to the Dean and a formal
complaint department as a result of my
complaints here by the way things
changed there's reform going on right
now in this university because of the
written complaint and the verbal
complaints I I brought to higher levels
too late for me though it's not going to
help me my life still gets destroyed and
in France as I say the students were
powerless they were the captives of the
teachers and bureaucrats who control the
program and if the program was bad and
in my particular town particular time
with these few particular teachers this
program was bad it was absolutely
terrible ah the only way for me to
compensate there were no checks and
balances there was no oversight nobody
was responsible anyone for anything the
only way to compensate would have been
for me to leave France and when I say
leave I don't mean on vacation to close
the apartment lose all my furniture lose
my fixed address lose my telephone
number and then re-enter France rent a
new apartment get a new telephone number
a new fixed address something like a
bank account and try to prove that
that's your address and so on and begin
the whole immigration process again from
page one anyway I went through this
series of surreal scenarios in applying
to become a French citizen but because
of one bad teacher because of one bad
unit in the French bureaucracy that is
now an opportunity I will never have